Day 0 / Apr 5 / Monday

Got up at 3am to go to the airport. Mami and Priscilla got up to say goodbye. Taxi got there early since
we called to confirm this time instead of hoping for the best.

Everything went smoothly. Lots of people in the Miami airport. Flight to London was also smooth and uneventful.

Got a nice look at London and England from the air on arrival. Bought subway tickets for 8 pounds each direct on the Picadilly line to Picadilly Circus. Found hostel which was really close to the stop. The hostel was a circus with some weird africans running security and other stuff. Great location but the hostel was primitive and the shared bathrooms were awkward.


Day 1 / Apr 6 / Tuesday / London

Got our room and then took a walk to Buckingham Palace and saw some horse guards. Tons of tourists around.

I needed a bathroom so ended up eating at Pizza Hut. 

Went back to the room and took a nap from 1 to 3pm.

Later took a tram to find Madam Toussod's and went on in since it was late and there wasn't much of a line. Took lots of pics with the wax figures and Kate loved it. 

Went back to Picadilly and had a beer in a bar close by. Went to another bar, Devonshire Inn, right by the hostel and had some Newcastles and bar food for dinner.


Day 2 / Apr 7 / Wednesday / London

Got up a little late at 9am since we were exhausted from the trip and time change. 

Went to the tour office to book the train and ferry for Ireland. Found a great deal on the internet, 30lbs pp. Took 2 hours to make the arrangements on our little travel computer.

Had lunch at the Devonshire Inn which was just opening. Later walked all over starting at Trafalgar Square, then over to Westminster Abbey, the Thames, the Parliament building, and Big Ben. Walked on the other side of the river to get good photos of everything.

Had coffee in a little place behind the London Eye and then went on the London Eye which had fantastic views of downtown.
Took tons of pics even though it was an overcast day.

After that walked all the way along the river to Tower Bridge and the London Tower. Walked across the bridge and with a ton
of people and cars. Went to the some gift shops and bought postcards, a flag sticker, Wilkinson family crest, etcs. Waited
by the London Tower until dark so we could take pics of the bridge with lights. Took the subway back to Picadilly and
dinner at an Italian place.


Day 3 / Apr 8 / Thursday / London - Holyhead - Dublin

Got up at 7:30 and to the subway to Euston for 8lbs and one change. At the train station got our tickets out of an automatic
box by inserting our CC. Took Virgen Trains to Holyhead. We had trouble finding
our seats since they had a weird numbering system. Great views of England from the train and in took about 3 hours.
The ferry had restaurants, casino, movie theater, store, etc. We never found typical seats and everybody took the tables
at the restaurants so we wandered around until we found space on a bench by the elevator. Bought a tiny 3lb coke in
the restaurant.

Got to the Dublin docks, got money from an ATM, and caught the only bus to downtown. The bus went to the Busarus
bus station downtown and we had to walk quite a ways with all of our stuff. Got directions along the way and finally
found the Leeson Inn. It turned out to be pretty close to everything and very nice and relaxed compared to the London
hostel.

The night went a street with restaurants, stores, and bars about 3 blocks from the Leeson. Had an expensive dinner
at burger king and then found Spar our new favorite grocery store.


Day 4 / Apr 9 / Friday - Dublin

Kate stayed up late on the internet so she slept in while I went down the street for coffee in the supermarket
that had a little area with seats in the window. Squeezed in between the some girls and watched the working
people go by. Went back to the hotel to wake up my lady and we got ready and left at 10:30. Bought lunch
at a soup and baked potato place across the street from St Steven's Green and ate in the park by a lake full of ducks, geese, and
sea gulls.

Walked all over Dublin, went to churches, souvenir stores, etc. There were some nice pedestrian only streets.
Had ice cream and a coke in the Temple Bar area which is lively with a lot of outdoor cafes and street bands.
Later found the main wide street, O'Connell Street where the spire sculpture is.

There was an important soccer game with a French team so there were rowdy French fans dressed in Blue and Yellow
all over the place.

That evening went to our favorite super market, Spar, and bought sandwiches for dinner.


Day 5 / Apr 10 / Saturday - Dublin / Glendalough, Kilkenny Tour All Day

Got up at 6am, left hotel at 7:30am and walked about 15 minutes over to the tourist office to catch the Paddywagon Tours bus at 8:30. Tour was a big bus full of people for 28e pp. First stop was a nice canyon created by glaciers. 

Everything was green with sheep everywhere. There was a wild goat at the stop at a scenic overlook. 

Next stop was the old monastery town of Glendalough (pronounced Glendalock). There was an ancient graveyard, and old stone building and a big huge stone tower. Walked all over and took lots of pics and then had tea in the hotel. Only had to yell at one group because I walked into their picture and they hissed at me.  There was also a National Park there with trails to some lakes. I think Glendalough means Canyon with Lakes.

Next stop on the tour was the scenic, quaint little town of Kilkenny which has the huge Kilkenny castle. First thing we did was find a supermarket inside a little mall and had lunch on a bench. This has become our routine because the restaurants are crappy and super-expensive. 

After lunch went walked around and went to the castle. Didn't take the castle tour because in was only inside the castle and you couldn't go outside on the towers to take pics. Took a lot of nice outside pics of the castle.

After the tour dropped us off downtown, went back to the Busarus office to buy tickets for the two hour trip to Belfast the next morning to catch our flight to Amsterdam. Then walked back to the hotel and packed up everything to leave early in the morning.


Day 6 / Apr 11 / Sunday - Dublin - Belfast - Amsterdam

Got up early and hiked with all of our crap to the Busarus terminal which was about 30 minutes.

The bus to Belfast left at 8am and arrived at about 10:30am. We caught another bus to the airport for almost the same price. 

At the airport, they searched every inch of our carry-ons and all of the stuff in it. We had all of the cameras and power cords which probably looked suspicious in the x-ray machine. We were joking around in Spanish while the lady dug through our stuff and glared at us suspiciously.

Got to Amsterdam and after the usual confusion, bought tickets, and caught the train to Central Station.  Took a tram from in front of Central Station to the specified stop in the museum district for our hotel, and asked around and looked confused until we found the Hotel Bellington, which was pretty close to the tram stop.  

The charming hotel was located on a nice street with all of the most expensive stores but it was pretty dead.  The hotel had no elevator and an extremely steep and narrow staircase. It was almost straight up.  We had to share a bathroom on a different floor.  After checking in we walked around and found a really lively area behind the Hard Rock cafe.  Had expensive pancakes at a place and then walked around some more. Amsterdam is very lively and there are people riding bikes everywhere so you have to watch out for them as well as cars, buses, and trams.


Day 7: Full Day in Amsterdam, April 12, 2010, Monday

Hotel Bellington had breakfast included so stocked up on it. They also had free internet which was a first.

We walked all over downtown Amsterdam, which is fantastic. The streets, buildings, and canals are all very scenic.  There are bicycles and bike paths everywhere with droves of bicyclists. 

Went to the Palace, Dam Square, the Red light district, coffee shops, and many souvenir shops. 

Had lunch in a middle eastern kabob place. First had a huge cheesy hotdog and then a lamb kabob. Kate liked it until she found out that it wasn't beef.  The cook was from Egypt. There were people from many different nationalities all over Amsterdam. it was the biggest mix of people that we had ever seen.

Had dinner at a Mexican place because Kate wanted rice and beens. We shared a big plate and I had a few
dolmish beers and the manager or somebody bought me an extra one for some reason. One waitress was from
Canada and she was excited to meet people from Costa Rica. 

After dinner we went to a coffee shop and bought one joint for 6 euros or something. It was pretty harsh and we got a little tiny buzz which was okay. Kate regretted having smoked since it burned her throat and she felt everybody would be disappointed in her for smoking again after quiting for 6 years.  We walked back to the hotel which I barely remember.


Day 8: Another full day touring Amsterdam, April 13, 2010, Tuesday

Spent all morning making travel arrangements to Sweden. Decided to go to Malmo first so the trip wouldn't be so long. Booked it through Eurolines buses. Also had to switch rooms for some reason. The new room was on the same floor and had a bathroom which was a nice surprise. 

Had lunch at the Italian deli next door to the hotel.  Turned out to be very expensive since everything was by weight. After lunch we went to find the bus station. Took the tram to Amstel Station and the Eurolines bus terminal was right next door. Later rode the tram until we saw a big super market and got off to buy some sandwiches and food the the over night bus trip.

Later in the afternoon we were walking around downtown and we found a tour of a church that went up into the tower for views of the city. Did the tour which was excellent. The climb up to the tower was super steep and very narrow so Kate freaked out a little. Saw the huge church bells and got a nice history of the church. Took some excellent photos from the church tower. Later Kate bought some clothes and I bought an Amstel Sterk beer to drink in the hotel.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 9: Amsterdam to Hamburg to Copenhagen to Malmo, April 14, 2010, Wednesday

Had a full breakfast at the Hotel Bellington, packed up, and checked out. Left our baggage in the reception area with the nice Chinese lady. Used our 24 hour tram pass to go back out into the suburbs to a big supermarket to buy some road food for the all night bus trip to Sweden.

Went back to downtown Amsterdam and Kate bought a belt at H&K. We ate lunch by the Amster River but it was pretty cold so we didn't stay long. Took our last look around downtown Amsterdam and then went back and picked up our luggage and headed by tram to the Amster Station and to the bus station which is next door. We used the crap out of those tram passes.

Waited a couple of hours for the bus. There were some sketchy Africans on the bus drinking in the back. They went to the bathroom which was right beside every few minutes to smoke. At the German border one of the Africans and one other guy were taken off of the bus since they didn't have proper id. Wasted an extra hour at the border waiting on the police to decide if they could continue or not.

Rode all night. Had to get off of the bus for the ferry crossing from Germany to Denmark. Went up and sat in the restaurant for 45 minutes for the trip. Stopped in Copenhagen which looked very cool at 5 in the morning. Then continued on for another hour to Malmo.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 10: Full day in Malmo, Sweden, April 15, 2010, Thursday

Arrived in Malmo on the bus at 6:30 am. Walked about 15 minutes to the Central Station and got some kroner from a cash machine and figured out which bus to take to our hotel, Hotel Ibis, which is a little ways outside of the city center.  Hotel Ibis is Kate's new favorite hotel because they modern, chic and don't cost a fortune.

Found the bus and the driver didn't make us pay because he didn't have change for 100 Kroner notes. The bus cost 18 kroner = 1.8 Euro = $2.10 each way per person. 

Got directions to the hotel from the bus driver but he sent us the wrong way to a youth hostel. Asked another lady on the street and she also sent us the wrong way. Went back to the bus stop and asked some kids and they sent us the right way. 

Walked about 15 minutes to the hotel but coundn't check in until 10am so we had to hang around and kill 2 hours. We got in trouble for sleeping on a couch in the lobby. A lady woke us up and told us we couldn't sleep there since there was a convention and the people were coming to the lobby lounge area.

Finally got to check in to the hotel and took a 2 hour nap and got up at about 12:30pm. Got ready and headed downtown to check out Malmo and find transportation to Stockholm for the next day. 

First went to a huge Walmart-like store across the street from the hotel. Then went back to Central Station by bus which didn't charge us again since I was asking him for a 24 hour bus pass and he didn't understand me or something.  

After some research we found an overnight bus that leaves at 10pm so bought tickets for that. There was a cheap train but it left at noon and arrived at 6pm so we would also have to pay for a hotel in expensive Stockholm. 

Spent the rest of the afternoon walking around and shopping in downtown. Got back to the hotel at about 8pm (still light out) and uploled some pictures. Had to pay for a day of internet access. Also booked our hotel in Stockholm, the Hotel Ibis there for about 55 euros per night.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 11 / Apr 16 / Friday - Malmo, Sweden

Got up at 8am and went downstairs to the hotel restaurant to have coffee while Kate stayed in bed.  We have to check out at 12N so we will hang around the hotel until then. Packed up, checked out, and left our bags in hotel storage. 

After checking out, took the bus back to downtown and Kate went on a shopping spree at her favorite new store, H&M, which is having a huge sale. I went next door to McDonald's to drink more coffee and use the free wifi. 

It's a windy, sunny but frigid day in southerm Sweden. There are a lot of people in the street and in the sidewalk cafe's and coffee shops. I am in Espresso House which is across the street from the 2nd H&M writing this.  

Malmo has a vibrant city center full of young people.  The style here for girls, is leggings with short skirts or long blouses so that is what Kate is looking for.

At 6pm went to the movie 'The Bounty Hunter'. The theatres had assigned seats and the movie cost about 10 euros.  We had to leave about 10 minutes early because we didn't want to get to the night bus too late. Grabbed a bus back to the hotel to get our stuff out of their storage closet and caught the same bus back to downtown. We thought that the bus went all the way to the Central Station but it turned off and we had to hop off real quick and walk a little farther. Got to the bus early and got good seats. Sat at a table with two other people in front of us.

Horrific night because we couldn't get comfortable and the idiot driver had the heat cranked up all the way.  In the middle of the night, I took off my sweater forgetting that my glasses were hanging on the front of it and my glasses ended up on the floor in the aisle. Somehow, I found them their the next morning and nobody had stepped on them.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 12 / Apr 17 / Saturday - Stockholm

The night bus got in about an hour early at 5:15 so we killed some time at Central Station. We bought an
unlimited 3 day subway which wasn't cheap but cheaper than buying individual passes. At about 8am
we headed to the hotel which was easy to find and we didn't have to walk too far with all of our gear. The
hotel had a room ready so we didn't have to wait until check in time. Room was the same as in Malmo
just not as new. We took a nap until noon and then showered and headed out.

Took the subway to the Old Town area and walked around the palaces, churches, and the maze of
tiny cobbled streets. Bought lunch at a super market and ate outside the Royal Apartments or something.
Saw the changing of the guard and walked over to the busy harbour with nice views. Later Kate shopped
at her favorite store H&M of which there were 3 or 4 in shopping district downtown while I waited in McDonalds
and used the internet. Headed back to the hotel at about 6pm since we were exhausted. I slept from about 8pm
to 8am.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 13 / Apr 18 / Sunday - Stockholm

Got up at 8ish and played on the Acer while Kate slept. Later went down for coffee and started planning our trop to Finland. Found out that we both needed a visa to Russia so started working on that. Relaxed in the hotel since it was Sunday and then headed downtown on the subway at about noon. Stopped at a grocery store and had salads for lunch on a park bench outside of the store in a little neighborhood.

SNAPSHOT: I am sitting in a coffee shop called Moda Cafe which is an extension of Kate's favorite store, H&M, where she is shopping again. I am sipping on my tiny 2 euro coffee. The waitress is a typical young blond swedist girl and the manager asked me about my little Acer computer. There are a couple of tables of Swedes who are keeping an eye on me. It's a sunny but chilly Sunday in Stockholm and we need to take more pictures. Most of the people in Stockholm have been super friendly since I ask directions about every five minutes.

Went to the movie theater to buy our tickets and then saw an outdoor flee market in a big plaza. We found a huge cheap suitcase on wheels so bought it for 30 euro and had to take it back to the hotel.

On the way back from the hotel to downtown, got off at a different stop which had views from a hillside of downtown.  Took some pictures there and then went to the movie at 6:20. The move was Date Night and was pretty funny.  After the movie we had dinner at kabob place and then took the metro back to the hotel just as it was getting dark.  It was raining a little when we got out of the movie. Made our reservations for a hotel in Helsinki.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 14: Overnight Ferry Stockholm to Helsinki, 2010-04-19

Checked out of the hotel and put our luggage in hotel storage. Took the subway to downtown for a final look around.

Bought final souvenirs and had lunch at a British place. Lunch was a delicious piece of chicken swaddled in bacon, and potatos with a cheese and wine sauce.

Kate made a final stop at H&M to buy some tennis shoes. Then we took subway back to the hotel to pick up the bags. Walked the 500m or so back to subway with all of our stuff and went to the ferry bus stop that we had found earlier. Lots of people on the bus and at the ferry terminal. The ferry was super efficient and we went right on board. It was a huge ferry, just like a little cruise ship with restaurants, bars, casino, entertainment, circus, pool/sauna, etc.

Put out stuff in the room which was at the very bottom of the boat, under the car decks, and then went on deck outside to watch the departure from Stockholm. Later we found a couch with a big window so sat there for a few hours and watched the excellent scenery. The boat stayed really close to the bank and there were houses and villages all along the waterfront.

After dark we went and watched a highwire circus act that was above the main promenade and then had a few beers in a bar with live music. After that went to dinner and had some pasta and more beer, Lapin-something. The cabin was cozy with a bathroom and shower and two upper bunk beds. We started in the same bed but they were about half the size of a twin bed so I moved to the other bunk a little later.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 15: Arrived in Helsinki, 2010-04-20

Got to Helsinki at about 10am and took the crowded tram to the Train Station to catch the airport bus. Kate was in the back of the tram and I had to go to the front to pay and couldn't get back to where she was. On a few of the stops I got off and got back on in the last car where she was. Was afraid that I would get caught outside the tram and loose her since she didn't know where to get off.

Found the airport bus and went to the airport and finally found the free bus to the hotel. Hotel was great with nice big room, TV, and bathroom. Got ourselves together and headed back to Helsinki. The only problem with the hotel is that it costs us 4 euro pp per trim to get to downtown. Walked around Helsinki and did the usual. There were only a few souvenir shops so it doesn't look like they have many tourists. Kate found her favorite store so she was happy.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 16: Last Day in Helsinki

Went to breakfast (included) at about 8:30 and filled up. Kate wasn't feeling great so she stayed in the room while I went to Helsinki to make ferry arrangements and look around for the last time. 

Went inside a church and saw a demonstration at the other, white church. Had a typical Finnish snack of herring baked into a bun.

Bought a postcard and a frig magnet for 7 euro. Went back to the hotel at about 2pm and then we walked over to the mall which turned out to be huge and had everything.

Ate burgers at Hessburger at the mall and then found two huge Walmart type stores on the bottom floor. Messed around there for a few hours and then went back to the hotel. Booked a hotel in Estonia for two nites for 29 euro pp pn, the cheapest yet.

Bought a CF card reader at the mall for 20e so we could finally see the pics from the big camera.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 17: Helsinki to Tallinn, Estonia by Ferry 2010-04-22

Got up at 7am, had a huge full breakfast at the hotel at 8am, caught the Free Bus to the airport, and caught the 615 bus to Helsinki. It's a brisk, overcast day in Finland. It started raining and snowing. Walked from the Train Station to H&M so Kate could buy more lovely stuff.

Walked the rest of the way in the light sleet to the Linda Line terminal about 5 blocks with all of our baggage. Ferry left right on time at 12N. It's a smaller high-speed boat that only takes 2 hours to cross the little arm of the baltic between Scandinavia and Estonia. Our bags are getting heavier but the huge roller suitcase we bought in Stockholm for 30e is holding up great.

Got to Tallinn, Estonia and walked over to the hotel which was really close and checked in. Great hotel, Tallink Express for only 29e.  Went downtown and walked through the maze of little cobblestoned streets and buildings from the 13 and 1400's. St Olaf's church was close so we paid to climb up the tower and take pictures of all of Old Town. Great views of the the other churches and the famous Gothic Town Hall.

Had lunch at a restaurant in the basement of a 600 year old building which is now a hotel. The food was cheap and fantastic. Kate had a soup that she loved so obviously we will return for more.

Later walked all over Old Town, which wasn't very big, and took lots of pictures. In the evening, returned for another soup at the Olive restaurant and the waitress thought we were a little strange.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 18: Full Day Exploring Tallinn, Estonia, 2010-04-23

Got directions to the main bus station and went by tram to find it. Bought tickets for the next morning to Riga, Latvia. Also made sure that the trams would be running at 6am on a Saturday.

Spent the rest of the day walking around, going into churches, and warming up in coffee shops. It was still really cold. Had lunch at McDonalds right by the ancient gate and wall.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 19 / Apr 24 / Tallinn to Riga, Latvia

Got up at 5am and left the hotel at 6am with all of our gear. Walked about 5 blocks to the nearest stop for Tram 2. It finally showed up and we made it to the bus station in plenty of time. People in the streets were leaving the discos and heading home from the night before.

Five hour ride to Riga. We slept about the way. There was some nice scenery of mainly farm land, little towns, lakes, and some beaches. Kate reserved an apartment instead of a hotel. It was close to the bus station so we got there and waited for the guy who was supposed to meet us at noon. Guy showed up and helped me lug the big suitcase up about 5 flights of stairs since there was no elevator. The apartment was huge and very nice with wood floors and nice decor.

It was freezing outside so we didn't walk around much. Had lunch at a delicous pizza place in a mall right by the hotel. The prices are about as cheap as Estonia. Dropped Kate off at the apartment since it was too cold for her and Riga was about like Tallinn. I went over to the main church which was just a few blocks away and went up into the tower for views of the whole city. Since the church tower had been destroyed in WW2 and restored later there was an elevator to the top. First time that I didn't have to climb all the way up. Great views at the top but also a powerful freezing wind. Went back to the apt and found Kate with no electricity since she had blown the master fuse. We finally found the main fuse box out in the passage way since none of the fuses in the fuse box in the apt had been tripped.

Later went to the bus station to find out about luggage storage and the overnight bus to Warsaw. Went to McDonalds for a few hours to book the bus and hotel for Warsaw. Spent a few hours there with all of the people staring at us. Everybody stares at us every where that we go.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 20: Overnight Bus from Riga to Warsaw, Poland 2010-04-25

Stayed in the apartment until noon relaxing and waiting on the guy to come and check us out and help me lug big blackie down the stairs. 

Took the luggage to the train station which was only a few blocks away and put it in their storage. Then went and ate lunch at Pico Pizza again but at a different location. Delicious again. 

After lunch went and bought movie tickets to see Hot Tub Time Machine. Then went and walked around old town until the movie started at 2:45pm. Movie was pretty funny and afterwards we went to McDonalds to use the internet and kill time before the night bus left at 7pm. Had to change buses in Lithuania at 11pm. Didn't sleep very well like usual but it wasn't too bad.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 21: All Day in Warsaw 2010-04-26

Arrived in Warsaw 5:30am at the central train station. Had a lot of trouble finding our bus mainly because the driver was sealed in a glass cubicle so we couldn't ask him any questions to confirm that we were on the right bus. We knew the number but didn't know which direction to get on. We tried to get info from a lot of people but they weren't real helpful. The Polish like to yell at people as their normal way of speaking.

Finally made it to the hotel and checked in. The hotel was a huge cavernous cement number with all of the personality of a state institution.  Napped for two hours and then headed back to the center to walk around.

Walked down the Royal Way past important buildings to the Old Town which was really nice. Went up a tower to take some pictures from above which is my new fun thing to do. Had a coffee and snacks in the main square of Old Town in an outdoor coffee shop. I asked the waiter to take a picture of us and he dropped the camera onto the cobblestones and it hit hard but survived somehow. The waiter was a little freaked out for having done that. We also finally started paying for buses since we found out where to buy tickets.

We really enjoyed Warsaw and the people were a lot friendlier even though they yelled at us a few times. We liked Poland better than all of the countries since Holland: Sweden, Finland, Estonia, and Latvia. Had a quick dinner at the hotel and went to the room to pack.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 22: Warsaw to Prague 2010-04-27

Checked out of hotel at 7:30 and took a slow bus to the bus terminal to catch our Prague bus at 9am. 12 hour slow bus ride with many stops and no border check. At the dinner stop we were able to get some Czech money for the subway when we arrive. Also had to get some more Polska money in order to buy something for dinner. Got to Prague at 9:30 and took the subway to our hotel's stop. There were a lot of people in the subway so it wasn't dangerous. The subwat was on the honor system and we only bought one ticket because we didn't have enough change for two. It didn't look like many people were paying anyway. We had to walk two dark and isolated blocks with all of our stuff to get to the hotel.

Luckily didn't get lost, asked directions and got right to the hotel. The hotel was full of kids on a field trip or something.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 23: All Day Sightseeing in Prague 2010-04-28

Went downtown and walked around. Went to an open air market and to a tourist info office to get a map. Went to the main square and saw the famous clock ding the hour with the saints moving around in the windows. Went up in the clock tower for views and to take pictures. 

Later went to the river and had coffee in a little outdoor cafe right on the water. Went to some more souvenir shops and Kate bought an egg with Mary and Jesus painted on it.

Ate a hotdog from a street place that turned out to be a grease bomb. Found an H&M for Kate and she bought some stuff. Went back to the hotel early. Later went back downtown to take some night pictures of the Charles Bridge. There were other people there with their tripods doing the same thing. Had dinner at McD's and then went to the hotel.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 24: All Day in Prague and All Night Bus to Budapest 2010-04-29

I got up early and went to the bus station to find a bus to Budapest. Had coffee at the place and waited for the final bus company to open at 8am. They were the only ones who had an overnight bus to Budapest so made those arrangements. Went back to the hotel and booked an Ibis hotel in Budapest. Packed, checked out, and went to the bus station to store our stuff and then went back downtown. Went across the famous Charles River bridge for the first time and walked up to the Prague Castle on the other side.

The whole area around the Prague Castle was fantastic including the main church. Took tons of pictures and then walked over to the Mirador in the big park. The place was full of people but we went up the stairs to the top of the Mirador and took some great pictures of downtown and the river.

Went to bus station at about 9:30 to wait for the bus to leave at 11:30. The bus people were extremely rude and complained about our huge suitcase and then wouldn't let us take our backpack on the bus. The bus hit something in the middle of the night and stopped for about 30 minutes checking the damage.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 25: Arrival and All Day Exploring Budapest 2010-04-30

Arrived in Budapest at about 7am and bus dumped us out on a street corner across the street from a Bus Terminal. It took us awhile to figure out where we were and where we were supposed to go.  Got cash from an ATM in the bus terminal and found the subway entrance and went to the Hotel Ibis in Heroes Square. Great location across the street from some museums, a big monument, the zoo, and the Hungarian Baths.

Slept for a few hours and then went downtown of the subway. Had lunch at McD's and walked around for a few hours. Went by the Parliament building and some other stuff then had coffee at a sidewak cafe.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 26: All Day in Budapest 2010-05-01

Got up early to go to the thermal baths but went to the wrong place. Went back to the baths near the hotel and they turned out to be the ones we were looking for anyway. Spent a few hours there. Since it was Saturday the place was packed. There were lots of little pools with various temperatures and chemicals such as sulfur and steam rooms. The steam room we went into was so hot we could only stand it for a few minutes.

Took a nap after the baths and went back downtown to mess around in the afternoon and evening. Took some night pictures of the Heros Square monuments.

Bought train tickets to Sinaia, Romania in Transylvania.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day 27 / May 2 - Su / Budapest to Romania

Checked out of Ibis and left bags in storage. Went down to the other side of the river and walked up a big hill to a big thing with a church and towers with a great
view of the river and the parliment building.

In the afternoon, walked all over downtown to find a movie theater that we saw on the internet. Took about 2 hours to find it. The Europeans give lousy directions.
Saw 'When in Rome'.

After the movie, went to the train station about an hour early and found out that the train left from a different station. Went to find a bus and then decided to
take a taxi since it was about 9:30pm. The station wasn't very far so didn't have to pay too much. At the correct train station there were gypsey's bothering
people and begging and generally lurking around and looking at people's luggage. Once again we had trouble getting into the right car and had to move a few
times when people started getting on at later stops.

Day 28 / May 3 - Mo / Sinaia, Transylvania, Romania

In the middle of the night, the border police mounted the train to check passports for the exit and then the entry to Romania.

In the morning, went through some spectacular mountains and it looked like Colorado.

Arrived in Sinaia at around noon and took a taxi to the hotel, Pensionaia Dona, which was about 2kms away on the other side of the little town.
Our taxi driver, Chip, offerred to take us on a tour the next day for 40euro.

Sinaia is a ski resort and is close to Draculas Castle and some other historic sites. Walked through town and had lunch at a restaurant in a different hotel.
After that went to the tourist office to find out about castle tours but there weren't any so we called Chip and arranged an all day tour for the next day.

Day 29 / May 4 - Tu / Sinaia

All day tour with Chip to Dracula castle, The Citadel, Brasov, and lunch at a different ski resort. Dracula's Castle was pretty boring but the other stuff was
nice. Walked around Brasov and went to the Black Church and then to some stores. Chip was pretty friendly and he showed us pictures of his lady and kid.
Chip pulled over for some nice scenic photos of the mountains and the view from above Brasov.

The Citadel was closed but we walked up the hill to take some outside pictures. The place was roped off and there were a couple of guards at the end.
We took some funny pictires with one of them acting like he was going to whack me with their nightsticks. We exchanged emails with the guard, Nicolai,
since he wanted to see the pictures.

Before heading back to Sinaia, we had Chip stop at the train station in Brasov to buy our tickets to Budapest which were about 30euro each. After Chip dropped
us off at the hotel, I walked down to the train station to buy tickets to Bucharest for 7am the next morning.

Day 30 / May 5 - We / Sinaia - Bucharest - Bulgaria - Istanbul

Got up early, checked out of the hotel, the hotel lady called us a taxi, and went back to the train station. The train was a little late and the huge suitcase wouldn't
fit anywhere. This time our seats were in a cabin with six other people. We stood between the cars by the bathroom for awhile with the big suitcase but people
kept coming in there to smoke so we gave in, left the huge suitcase in the outside passage and took our seats with the other people.

Arrived in Bucharest and just stayed in the station to wait for our train to Istanbul at noon. Killed a few hours in McDonalds which was right in the station and
then went to our private sleeper car in the train. The sleeper car was small but cozy and I spent hours sitting in the window and going out in the hall to the
window on the other side to see the excellent views of the Romanian and then the Bulgarian countryside. Romania was interesting with herds of sheep, storks
in huge nests on top of telephone poles (like the ones in Poland) and horse-drawn plows and wagons.

Bulgaria wasn't as interesting but had some nice mountains. It was mainly just big farms. The train was main backpackers and wasn't very full.

That night the sleeper car was pretty cozy with the shade drawn and we slept pretty well.

At the Turkey border in the middle of the night, instead of the border police coming through the train, we had to get off and wait in line. I had to buy a
tourist visa for $20 but Kate didn't need one. We waited in the main line about 30 minutes before the border people showed up.

Day 31 / May 6 - Th / Istanbul

Arrived in Istanbul about an hour late, at about 9am. At the train station, we did the usual routine, got cash, found the tourist info office to get a map, and
tried to figure out the public transportation. The Tourist Info guy was useless and we glared at him. We finally figured out how to use the tram to get to
our hotel which wasn't too far away. The tram was packed with people so we had to shove our way in with full luggage and then try to figure out which stop
to get off at. We asked some people and they gave us bad info and we got off one stop early. Figured out the problem, got back on the next packed tram
and got off at the right stop. The hotel was a couple of blocks away from the tram stop and not too hard to find by map.

After checking in, we went to eat at a typical local buffet style place. Food was excellent. After that went to the Grand Bizarre which was really close
and started dealing with the aggressive salesmen. Kate got trapped by one guy selling really expensive fake purses in his shop and she couldn't escape
so I had to intervene and get her out of there. The guy acted really mad just like the psycho carpet sellers.

That night had dinner at a sidewalk kebab place which was excellent. The waiter, Murat, really really like Kate and he brought me some free tea. After
dinner we took some pictures with the restaurant people and they enjoyed that.

Day 32 / May 7 - Fr / Istanbul

Walked down to the Blue Mosque and Aya Sofia but didn't go in since there were so many people and long lines to enter. Had lunch at McD's by the train
station and then went back to the Grand Bazaar. Kate bought a huge fake Prada bag with roller wheels. I negotiated and we got it for half of the original
price. Kate had to leave the store so I could speak freely and yell a little bit at the salesman withour her freaking out.

That night went back to the same sidewalk Kebob place and did a repeat of the night before. There were janky stray cats everywhere around Istanbul and
Kate was feeding them so they stayed around.

Day 33 / May 8 - Sa / Istanbul

Took the tram across the water (but still in Europe) to the main pedestrian shopping street which was packed with people. Walked all the way back to the
bridge on the other side. Near the bridge was the ancient Galata Tower which is a tourist attraction. We paid to go up the elevator to the tower lookout to
take some pictures. Great views of the mosques, water, bridge, etc.
Next we walked across the bridge which was packed with fisherman, traffic, and the little ferry boats where buzzing around in the water below.
On the other side of the bridge there were hundreds of people in the streets and in the outdoor markets along the water.

Took a long trip by tram and subway to the west side bus station to buy tickets for Athens for the next day.

Had dinner at a bakery near the train station which had sandwiches and pizza. Later went to a hotel with a rooftop terrace for views, drinks, and photos. Got
some nice evening and night shots of the Blue Mosque.

Day 34 / May 9 - Su / Istanbul - Thessoloniki

Checked out of the hotel, stored our bags in the back, and went to the Grand Bazaar one last time. The bazaar was closed but the stores around it were open.
Later took a little ferry over to the Asian side for the first time and set foot in Asia. Went back on the same ferry and then went to the movie, Remember Me.

After the movie, waited until 8pm at a coffee shop, picked up our baggage, squeezed into the tram, which wasn't as full this time and walked the few blocks between
the tram stop and the subway stop which included carrying the huge suitcase up an overpass and then down into an under pass. A nice young man helped me
carry it up the overpass.

Caught the big, comfy bus at 10pm and headed to Greece. Once again had to get out at the border stops and stand in line. The Greek side took about an hour.
Slept pretty good on this bus and it wasn't very full

Day 35 / May 10 - Mo / Thessoloniki - Athens

In the early morning, passed through some very scenic mountains in Greece. Got to Thessaloniki at 8:30am and walked about a kilometer from where the bus
dropped us off to another little bus station to catch the bus to Athens. Had to ask directions a few times because it was a little complicated. Bought bus tickets
for the 10am bus, found an internet cafe to make hotel reservations, and headed to Athens.

Arrived in Athens at about 4pm and the bus stopped really close to the hotel but it still tooks us a while to find it about 5 blocks away. Athens was really
sketchy with illegal Africans and Pakistanis all over the place. The police were running around chasing them. Found a nice sidewalk cafe for dinner. Had kebab,
a greek salad and french fries.

After dinner found a supermarket and a hardware store to buy stuff to fix the big suitcase which is disintegrating more every day.

Day 36 / May 11 - Tu / Athens

Kate slept until about noon and then we had lunch at the same place as the night before. Walked to the entrance to the ruins where there were a bunch
of little stores where I bought a Greece tshirt. We took the subway to the ferry docks to buy tickets to Santorini. Kate got pickpocketed on the subway
and lost about 30euro, the Wachovia card, and her cedula.

We rushed back to the hotel use the laptop to call Wachovia to cancel the atm card. There weren't any charges on it so we only lost the cash.

Later bought tickets to Egypt online for after we return from Santorini on Sunday.

In the evening, had dinner at Goody's in Omonia Square and bought some water for the boat ride the next day. Later went to the hotel next door, Hotel Aden?, which had
a rooftop terrace and bar and had a beer and took some pics.

Day 37 / May 12 - We / Athens - Santorini

Got up before 6am checked out of the hotel but left most of our luggage and took the subway back to the ferry dock to catch to boat to Santorini at 7:25. Boat was
pretty full and we had to move inside because of the smokers and chilly breeze. We sat and played on the laptop and Kate listened to her walkman.

The boat made about 3 stops at different islands. Took some nice pics of white buildings on brown islands. The time flew by and we snuck into the comfy seats in first class and slept a little.

When we got to Santorini there were spectacular views of the white building all along the top of the mountain and coming down the side to the little harbors. Got off the
boat and took a bus to the main town of Fira. Then had to wait an hour for the next bus to the beach where our hotel, the Glaros, was in Perivolos. Finally got to the hotel and had to wait white they got our room ready even though it was already past 5:00pm. The employees were sitting around smoking and drinking beer when we got there. The main guy finally got there and we made arrangements to rent a car from him for two days.

Later went down to the beach which is about a block away. It was black sand and then little rocks near and in the water that were hard on the feet. I made the plunge
into the chilly Medaterranian and it wasn't that bad. The water was completely clear and calm. I flopped around awhile while Kate took pictures of me. Later showered and went to dinner at one of the many restaurants along the beach. We went to the busiest one that had live music. The waitress was also the mc and dance instructor and she was really nice. We did our usual and shared one meal of greek salad, soup, and a kabob on pita.

Day 38 / May 13 - Th / Santorini

Got up at 8:30 and went and had coffee with the hotel people since apparently we were the only ones there. The hotel guy had the car ready and I paid for the room and car. It looked like his personal car since it was diryt and he didn't ask about insurance or anything so it was a casual deal.

Drove around the island and took pictures. Went all the way to the other end to Oia and then to Fira for lunch. Parking was a hassle and the little streets were tricky since there were cars illegally parked and blocking half of the road in many places. Had a good lunch and then walked down the path that had the fantastic ocean and town views and took photos. Got down to where the famous donkeys were parked to take people on down the rest of the way to the docks.

Went to book our return ferry and found that we could either arrive in Athens at midnight or take a night ferry and get in early in the morning so decided to take the night boat even though we had a hotel for that night. Ferry was 34euro pp and left at Friday night / Saturday morning at 12:30 or so.

Later drove around some more and then went to the hotel to relax. That night drove back to Fira to take some night pictures with all of the lights, bought some souvenirs and then drove back to the beach for dinner at Meteorio again.

Day 39 / May 14 - Fr / Santorini - Atenas

Drove to Oia to take more photos of the white buildings going down the cliffs. On the Oia side, took pictures above the churches with the blue domes that were popular in the postcards. It was blazing heat with the sun reflecting off of the white buildings so we didn't last too long. There were fantastic views of the cliffs, buildings, cruise ships, islands, and ocean.

Messed around in the afternoon and evening. At 11pm the hotel guy took us to the port to catch our 12:40 ferry to Athens.

Found some nice seats in the ferry in the tv room. There were some guy snoring real loud so Kate couldn't sleep.

Day 40 / May 15 - Sa / Athens

At 5:30 the ferry announcer woke us up to get ready to disembark at 6am. A bus took us from the ferry to the subway stop. We got to the hotel at about 7am and luckily our room was ready so we slept until noon.

Later walked around Athens and found Kate's favorite stores. Walked by the Parliament building and the National Library and some other stuff.

Laid low that night and packed for our trip to Egypt the next day.

Day 41 / May 16 - Su / Athens - Cairo

Checked out at noon and asked our friend George at the hotel if we could store our big bag for a week (really 10 days). Went to lunch at Goodys and then headed to the airport. Lucky that we went early since it took us over an hour to get there on a confusing subway trip where we had to change trains a few times. Check in and flight were perfect with no hassles. We had one scare when we saw the airport sign with a different name and we thought we were going to the wrong airport and almost freaked out.

Cairo was hazy, dusty, and exotic. We had a big hassle at the airport because the hotel van never showed up. We had to borrow cell phones from random people to call the hotel and at first they told us the van was there and then they said he wasn't and we should take a taxi. I asked if they were going to pay for it and they said yes up to a ridiculously low amount.

We got a taxi, Tarik, and he gave us the normal hussle for a private tour the next day. I told him that the hotel would be paying his fare so he came up with and started arguing with the hotel guy who kept telling me that we agreed to pay too much. I told him that there were no taxis for the amount he gave us, 50 pounds (about $10). I let them work it out and we went to the room which was large and comfy with strong a/c.

That night just walked down to McD's for snacks. The streets of Cairo are full of people all the time and there are police on almost every major corner directing traffice. It's as hot as an oven here even at night so far.

Day 42 / May 17 - Mo / Cairo

Got up before 8 to go to the passport place and get a re-entry visa so we could go next door to Israel. We had gotten directions from a guy at the airport who overheard us asking about it in immigration. We started walking to the place but it got complicated so we got a taxi for $1 to take us. The place was only about 10 blocks. We went right in and filled out a form and they passed us through various windows to pay and get stamps. We left the passports and went to breakfast at McDs and then met our private tour guy Tarik at 10am at the hotel.

Blew through Cairo as Tarik drives like a maniac like most of the Egyptians. Went directly to the Pyramids of Giza which looked fantastic towering above the outskirts of Cairo as we approached. Tarik took us right to a camel guy and we negotiated a two hour lap around the whole area for about $50 total. Kate got on her camel and freaked out when it got up. To get up the camel stands up on his back legs first so the rider is thrown forward and then stands completely up as the rider is thrown backwards. She screeched during that whole thing and then was really nervous since the camel was so tall and she was high up. I mounted my beast and we walked about half a block before Kate aborted the mission. They were all telling her to calm down and relax but I new that it was game over. So we asked for a horse for her and one of the guys took her camel and ran back with a little horse. I loved my camel since it was a nice smooth ride. It was hard to take pictures since the camel rocked back and forth.

Kate had some trouble with her horse since at first the guys just let her go with it. I told them to lead it for her since she doesn't know how to ride a horse so they did that the rest of the way. She was nervous the whole time since her horse was bucking around. It really bucked once when my huge camel almost ran over it from behind.

We got down a few times for photos and the whole desert area was extremely scenic with guys on camels, horses, and buggies running around. It was a real desert scene. One funny thing I saw was a cop on a camel chasing a kid on a camel through a parking lot. We got down at the main pyramid place and then again at the Sphynx to take a ton of photos. We got tired of Tarik and the camel guy and all the other people who were constantly asking us for money.

Next Tarik took us to another pyramid with some tombs and heiroglyphics(?) and more people bothering us for money. We also stopped at a carpet making school where they had some kids making carpets and then they would give you the hard sell. Kate shut them down pretty fast before they showed us too many carpets and got nasty. I had had enough of Tarik and we told him to take us to the hotel and end the tour which was only about half over. Had to fight with him a little too since I didn't want to reimpburse hime for some stuff that he said he paid on the way.

That evening went to Pizza Hut and more people latched onto us and took us to a store where Kate bought a papyrus painting for 5 euro. She still thinks that she has to buy everything that they show us. Took a different way home from the Pizza Hut on the major streets and got lost. The streets were packed with people and it was hard to walk fast. Crossing the streets was also a hassle since you just have to walk into traffic since there are no crosswalks. We walked through a few places where there were sidewak cafes and everybody was smoking the hukas. To find our way home we had to go to an internet cafe and look up the address to the hotel and then we fould it pretty easily. We had walked right by our street on the way.

Day 43 / May 18 - Tu / Cairo

Went to Mugama to pick up our passports and then went to Cairo Gateway bus station to get tickets to Taba to go to Israel.

In the evening, took to subway to the Giza stop and a local guy helped us get a cheap taxi to the pyramids. As we got close to the pyramids the touts came running out and tried to stop the taxi and even get in with us. We locked the doors so they couldn't hop in. A horse carriage guy pulled his rig in front of the taxi to stop it and offer his horse ride.

At the pyramid gates, found out that everything was closed for a private party and there would be no laser light show. A new taxi driver/tour guide latched onto us and we got him to drive us to the Old Market which turned out to be pretty a quick cab ride from our hotel. Went through the massive market and had a good time negortiating for stuff. We bought some stuff from a cluster of family run stalls and had a good time joking around with them. They also served us mint tea. The main guy was yelling at everyone and I was trying to get Kate to record him bargaining with me. Everytime we turned on the camera he got real friendly and started laughing. I bought a tshirt and a magnet from them.

Day 44 / May 19 - We / Cairo - Taba - Eilat, Israel

Got up early to take the subway back to the bus station to catch the 9:30 bus to Taba. Bus ride was pure desert in Egypt. Stopped in the middle of nowhere for a snack and bathroom break in a nasty place with horrible toilets and aggressive flies. Went through some dramatic mountains which were pure rock. Several trucks had crashed along the road. One looked like it lost its brakes and slammed headon into a rock wall and completely flattened the cab.

Got to the bus station in Taba and walked to the Israeli border which was about 1km and did the exit and entrance. They were pretty strict with Kate on the Israeli side since here passport picture is way out of date and doesn't resemble here. There were a couple of hot Israeli girls running the checks. Once we got through the entrance we forget to change money so we had to take a taxi who accepted dollars to the town which was about 10km away.

We got a not too cheap hostel and it turned out to be the worst place that we had stayed because it hadn't been cleaned and it was super noise. There were partiers screaming and yelling and banging on doors throughout the night.

That night went to burger place and had a decent meal and then went and bought bus tickets to Jerusalem at the bus station which was across the street from the hostel.

Day 45 / May 20 - Th / Eilat to Jerusalem

Caught our five hour bus to Jerusalem and got there at about 12pm. Went outside and caught a local bus to the Old City and had a hard time figuring out where to get off since hardly anyone spoke English and there didn't appear to be a hotel area anywhere around. Got off at the Jaffa Gate stop and finally found a hotel zone on Jaffa St outside of the Old City. The hotel was 300 sheckles which is $80 and was run by a friendly older Jewish guy who got to know us.

Accidently found an excellent buffet style Jewish restaurant and some meatballs and other spicy stuff for lunch.

In the afternoon went to the Old City and walked around. Entered a few famous sites like Mary's crypt, David's Tomb, and Jesus' Tomb without realising what they were until later.

Had another bad night because there was a bar behind the hotel with live music until late. I slept through it because I was exhausted, like usual.

Day 46 / May 21 - Fr / Jerusalem

Went to the Old City again in the morning and joined a free tour at 11am but bailed out after about 30 minutes since we couldn't here the guy because there were about 30 people. Went back to the same place for lunch and had the same meal again. Then went back to the Old City and went to the Wailing Wall and walked through the four quarters: Jewish, Christian, Muslim, and Armenian.

Went back to the Church of the Sepulcre so we could enter Jesus' Tomb which we skipped the day before.

Found an expensive McDs for dinner and then went back to the room and hunted mosquitos.

Day 47 / May 22 - Sa / Jersalem

Had a horrible night because the room was full of agressive mosquitos. We hunted and killed a bunch of them but there were many more. They bit the crap out of us all night and we only slept about 5 hours.

I got up at about 9am and went to McDs for coffee but everything was closed for the sabbath. There was one little convenience store open so I bought cokes and chocolate cinnamon roles. Went back to the hotel and the manager helped me buy bus tickets online and then Kate and I booked rooms in Athens and Rome for the coming days. Didn't book a room in Cairo since we're not sure we can make it back in one day.

At about 3pm went back to McDs for lunch since it had opened then went to the old city to buy the rest of our souvenirs. Instead of bargaining I started laying the money on the counter and then leaving if they didn't accept it. This infuriated one guy who started yelling at me. I sent Kate back to accept his price and he yelled at her and threw her out too. Later bought all of the same stuff for the same prices elsewhere.

Kate was feeling bad so we went back to the hotel at 5pm to relax.

Day 48 / May 23 - Su / Jerusalem - Taba - Cairo

Caught the city bus to the Central Bus Station and caught out 7am bus to Eilat. Had some confusion at the bus station because we tried to print our online bus tickets from the machine. The hotel guy who bought the tickets for me used his id number which we didn't know. The bus people straightened it out for me and we got on one of the three buses that were leaving for Eilat with the gambling crowd.

Got to Eilat and had to rush to the border to catch our 12:30pm bus on the other side. Took a taxi to the border and then got mixed up paying the exit taxes so lost our place in line a few times. On the Egyptian side didn't get out in time and there were some other guys offerring minibus service to Cairo. We waited in their minibus for awhile which they had to fill before we could leave. Waited about an hour and nobody else signed up so we started walking to the bus station. The minibus guy followed us and kept trying to make a deal. We got to the bus station and there was another minibus leaving from there so we took it. The first guy kept telling the second guy how much to charge so we had to speak to him directly to get a decent price.

Took the long miniibus ride to Cairo. Sometimes the driver was about to doze off and other times he was in a huge hurry and driving crazy. Finally got to Cairo about 5 hours later and the minibus stopped in the outskirts but luckily it was near a metro stop. Got on the subway and met a family of Christian Egyptians who started taking care of us. It was a young couple, their five year old, twin boys, and the wife's sister and father. The wife and sister latched onto Kate and soon started inviting us to their house. We declined a few times since it was already 9pm and we were exhausted from the road. They persisted and we finally gave in and went off to their house. They lived in Giza so we had a long subway ride from El Marg to Giza Suburban. From the subway stop, we took a tuktuk to their house. The house was run-down but huge and there were about 10 people living there.

The family was all over us, especially Kate. The ladies took her to a bedroom to comb her hair and feel her soft skin. The father help me wash up over a sink. I thought he might wash my hair for me. We had tea and then fruit and then they brought out the main spicy chicken dish with rice and pita bread. That all took a few hours. We showed them some of our pictures and they made Kate sing some Christian songs from her MP3. We took pictures with them and they asked us a million questions. Luckily the son and the brother in law could speak decent English.

The family wanted us to spend the night but Kate had had enough so we had to insist on leaving saying that we had already paid for the hotel, which was true. Earlier on they had told us that the father would take us back to the hotel but then we found out that he just had a moped. The new plan was for the father to take us to catch a taxi and we thought it would just be a quick ride to the taxi stop. The three of us hopped on the tiny moped with our big backpack and other bag and headed off at about 1am. There was a ton of traffic and it was a hectic ride on the back roads. Then daddy surprised us by getting on what looked like a freeway. He was weaving in and out of traffice while cars whizzed all around us and he just kept on going. We thought he was taking us all the way back to the hotel which was about 30km away but he finally stopped and let us off. I was practically sitting on the brake light and I was wondering the whole time what would happen if it snapped off and I was sent onto the pavement with all of the cars buzzing around. Kate seemed calm but as soon as we got in the taxi she had to take some hits off of her inhaler. The taxi ride was just over a buck and took about 10 minutes to get to our area and 10 more to find the street and hotel since the taxi driver didn't know where either. He tried to old Costa Rican taxi driver trick of shutting off the meter before could see the final total so we just paid him what we had last seen on the meter and he got a little excited but we walked away.

We got the huge master suite at the hotel, probably because there were no other rooms available at 1:30am on a Sunday. It was nice to sleep without mosquitos or noise.

Day 49 / May 24 - Mo / Cairo

Got up a little late and went to Pizza Hut for lunch via the metro. Then walked over to the Egyptian Museum blew through it in about an hour and a half. It's a huge place but there is a lot of stuff that isn't tagged. Saw King Tut's stuff but they wanted an extra $20 to go into the special room to see the mummy.

After the museum, Kate was feeling tired so took her back to the hotel. The hotel guy lent me his cell phone to call our Egyptian family and tell them that we couldn't go to dinner with them that night. Then I went to the pyramids by myself for a final look around. Took the metro back to the Giza stop and caught a taxi with a meter that turned out to be about 17 pounds. Got there at about 4:30 and they close at 6:00 so had to rush around a little. Walked around the three pyramids and took a few more pics. Each pyramid had police on all sides to keep people from climbing around on them. All of the camel guys gave me there sales pitch and followed me around. Went to the Sphynx last and found the kids to take some pictures of me kissing it and stuff. The police wouldn't let them in so they climbed up a rope and over a fench to get in. I oferred them a few pounds but they said they only accepted bills so I left. One of the kids was a loud mouth and followed out the exit where the guards were. One guard grabbed him and punched him in the arm a few times. I ran up and actted like I was going to punch him too. The loud mouth kept following me and yelling on the outside after I gave the other kid a few pounds so I threw a rock at him and almost nailed him in the head. Caught a taxi back to the metro and headed home. The metro car I was in kept filling up with only women so I started looking around and realized that men and women were in different train cars. I switched to an all men car and thought that maybe that was why they were always staring at Kate on the train.

Picked up Kate at the hotel and we went to Mcds for dinner and then to the same big market to buy our final souvenirs. Bought a couple of things and then Kate had an intestinal urgency so rushed out of there, grabbed a taxi, and made it back to the hotel just in time.

Day 50 / May 25 - Tu / Egypt - Greece

Took it easy in the hotel until about 11am and then took a taxi to the airport for our flight to Athens at 2:30pm. Everything went smoothly and we made it back to Hotel Elite and our friend George the Greek was working. He was happy to see us and Kate gave him the two souvenirs that we had bought in Egypt, an ash tray and a pyramid.

Went to the main shopping street later and I waited outside while Kate shopped. There was a disturbance as some guy grabbed a young thief who trying to steal his backpack or something. There was a lot of yelling and the police came and took the guy away in handcuffs. I think he was saying that he did it because he didn't have anything to eat.

Later when we got to the hotel George had bought us some gifts, a hat that said Greece and a necklace or something with beads. We felt bad because we made him fell obligated to buy us gifts.

Day 51 / May 26 - We / Greece - Rome

Took it easy in the hotel until about 11am and then took the metro to the airport to catch our flight to Rome on EasyJet. Smooth trip, Kate waited in line so we could get good seats on the plane since EJ doesn't have assigned seats. Landed in Rome and made a long arduous trip to the hotel. First took the express train from the airport to the metro then the metro to our stop and then walked about a km with all our baggage to the hotel. There were little tiny sidewalks but so many cars were parked on them that we had to walk in the busy street dragging our massive luggage. The last few blocks were straight up hill so Kate got pretty frustrated and started speaking furiously. Finally made it to the hotel dripping sweat and in bad moods. Hotel Giotti was nice but no wifi and the room got really expensive for the week-end.

Went to dinner at a nice place close to the hotel and flirted and took pictures with the cute black waittress. We had some disappointing spaghetti and a delicious fritata and a caraffe of white slightly sparkly wine.

Day 52 / May 27 - Th / Rome

Headed out at about 10am after enjoying the large free breakfast at the hotel. Went to the Vatican first after buying a Rome Pass for 25euro each which gave us unlimited pubtranpo and 2 entradas for 3 days. Vatican was packed and we waited in line for about 20 minutes just to enter the cathedral because everybody had to pass through the metal detector and xray machine.

The church and plaza were fantastic and we took 100s of pictures. Next went to lunch and had more spaghetti and two 4euro cokes which was more than the food, which was crap anyway. After lunch we bought tickets for the hop on hop off bus for 15 euro each and rode the bus to the coluseum. We got in free with the Rome Pass and we didn't have to wait in line because there was a special empty line. Coliseum was fantastic even thought there were tons of people and we walked all around it.

After that we rode the hoho bus around a few times to relax and got off at a places and took pictures. Stopped at an internet cafe on the way to the metro and then headed back to the hotel at about 10pm. There were a lot of people in the street so walking was no problem in the dark.

Day 53 / May 28 - Fr / Rome

Headed out again and went to the Spanish Steps and Trevi Fountain which were both packed with people. We did another lap on the hoho bus before our tickets expired. We got off at our final stop to search for Kate's H&M store. It was raining and we were hungry and the store turned out to be very small.

While we were walking around we saw a guy cross the street illegally and get hit by a motorcycle right in front of us. He got knocked down pretty hard but they were both okay. The motorcycle guy stopped to make sure that he was okay.

We took the metro back to the Vatican stop so we could have lunch at Mcds and use the internet. It took us forever to find Mcds and it was packed so we returned to a Chinese place that we had passed on the way. The chinese place turned out to be supurb and better than any Italian place that we had eaten at. After that stopped at the same internet cafe and then headed back to the hotel since we were wiped out. In the evening returned to the same little restaurant for a fritata and a caraffe of the sparkly wine.

Day 54 / May 29 - Sa / Rome

Made some more rounds in Rome to buy souvenirs and bought our train tickets to Ancona to catch the ferry to Croatia.

Went to the coliseum again and walked from there to the huge palace. Went to the plaza behind the palace that is up the hill a little ways. There were several brides gettings their wedding photos taken there. One was a big mama. Had a salad at a packed Mcds for lunch. Had to share a table with another couple. Found out that the Mcds didn't have internet.

On our way back to the hotel we got lost because we had taken a different route and we couldn't remember which way to take the bus back to our stop. We asked some guys for directions but they sent us to the Plaza Giotto instead of the Hotel Giotto. We took a nice bus tour to the outskirts of Rome and then went back to the starting point. Found the correct bus but then took it the wrong way and got off at the subway stop that we knew and walked back to the hotel.

We bought some food to take back to the hotel for dinner and we ate in the room.

Day 55 / May 30 - Su / Rome - Ancona

Had another supurb breakfast at the Giotto and then headed to the train station with the big suitcase in tow. We got there extra early and sat around and watched people. There are always suspicious looking people hanging around in the bus and train stations. Our train gate number finally appeared on the big board so we hopped onboard. It had plenty of room for the big suitcase in the space by the bathroom and there were hardly any people in our car.

Had a nice scenic train ride from Rome to Ancona. There were little villages with a huge church or palace purched on the highest hill and lots of wheat or rye fields. When we got to the coast near Ancona the train went right along the beach which was full of people and umbrellas.

Our hotel was literally right in front of the train station so we just had to cross the street and enter. Great room but no free internet. Ancona was dead and full of Pakistanis and Cubans for some reason. For dinner, we walked around and finally found a pizzaria that was open. This was the real thing and the guy whipped up our pizza right in front of us. He had it made and cooked in about 10 minutes.

Day 56 / May 31 - Mo / Ancona - Split, Croatia

Before breakfast I went to buy the ferry tickets and Kate stayed in the hotel room. Had to take a bus to the ferry terminal and wait until 9am for the ticket office to open. Got back to the hotel just in time for breakfast before it ended. The ferry didn't leave until 8:30 so we had all day to kill.

Took the bus downtown and walked around. Kate found a Zara so while she was in there I hiked up to the lighthouse at the highest point on the island. It was tricky to find with all of the little alleyways and narrow streets. The lighthouse was a weird place with signs that said military zone so I stopped at the gate and took some pictures of the view of the ocean and the backside of the island. There was no one around.

It started raining so we hunkered down in a nice place downtown for lunch. We had the usual Spaghetti a la Carbonera and some vegetables al gratin which were delicious. Once again the pasta was disappointing.

After lunch we went to an internet cafe and then back to the hotel where we had checked out and stored the big suitcase and asked them if we could hang around in the lobby for a few hours until it we could board the ferry at 6:30 pm.

At 6:30 we were among the first people to arrive so we had time to scout out the boat and find a good place where we could sleep. We found a curvy couch in the non-smoking part of the bar that was long enough for both of us to lay down with a little overlap. The place eventually filled up and people were coming in just to eat dinner and they would sit at our table without asking and they left all of there trash when they left. We agree that the Italians are indeed the Nicas of Europe.

The place finally calmed down and we hunkered down on the couch. Kate didn't want to sleep end to end so she had her head down around my knees and I was afraid that I would knee her in the face while sleeping. The couch wasn't super comfortable but we had a decent sleep.

Day 57 / June 1 - Tu / Split - Plitvice

Got to Croatia at 7am and joined the mob scene in immigration. We cut right into the line just like a bunch of other people and went right through. There was yelling and screaming in the lines because of the cutting. One guy with horrible teeth was screaming in an old mans face.

The bus station in Split was right in front of the ferry terminal so we just had to cross the street and buy our ticket to Grabovac near Plitvice. The bus ticket girl first sold us a ticket to the wrong Grabovac and it didn't leave until 5pm. Luckily we were still sitting in the bus terminal when she came over and said it was wrong and we had to do it again. The correct bus left at 8:30am so it turned out to be much better.

We had a quick coffee next door to the bus station and then headed out. The bus driver and his assistent were young guys and not very friendly. We kept asking them questions to try to figure out where Grabovac was so we would no where to get off to find our hotel, House Tina. We figured it all out and got off at the right spot after having to pay a little more since the stop was beyond the National Park. From the main road where the bus stop was we had to walk around to a little neighborhood with houses with hotel rooms. We went down the wrong street first and asked some people where the hotel was and they barely knew even though they were close neighbors.

Finally got to the House Tina which was a house that they had added on to and it had a bunch of rooms, a huge dining room, and cabins in front. We got a nice room with good internet. They also had a washing machine so we got to do a real load of laundry for the first time on the trip.

Day 58 / June 2 - We / Plitvice

Had an excellent breakfast of sandwiches, scrambled eggs, yogurt, and cereal by Tina. We were talking to an American guy at breakfast and found out that his wife was Nicaraguan. Kate thought she would probably be a chola but when she came in she turned out to be a higly educated and sophisticated older lady who was an architect. We had a nice conversation with them and they offerred to drop us off at the park since they were leaving in that direction and they had a rental car.

The park was fantastic and the best waterfall was right at the entrance. I found out that I had left the big camera battery in the hotel room so we were only using the little camera. After about an hour Kate started feeling bad and she wanted to go back to the hotel. I thought that I could drop her off and then return to the park but it took us forever to get out of there and then catch a bus to go the 12kms back to Grabovac. At one point we got caught in the middle of a school group on the walkway over the water and we were stuck going extremely slow for a long time. One we got to Grabovac we had lunch at about 2pm and then went back to the hotel so she could recuperate.

Day 59 / June 3 - Th / Plitvice

Went to the park again. Found the park shuttle bus and bought round trip tickets on it. We did a repeat of the day before but kept going to the other half of the park. Took some great pictures and video. There were less school groups this time so it was much better. The park was excellent but the best stuff was right at the beginning so the second half was kind of a let down. Had a nasty hamburger inside the park for lunch.

Rushed to catch the shuttle bus that was leaving at 3pm and barely caught it. Kate ate again at Hotel Grabovac since she couldn't eat her hanburger and we bought a few souvenirs there too.

Day 60 / June 4 - Fr / Plitvice - Split - Ancona, Italy

Got up early and had our last House Tina breakfast and walked to the main road to catch the bus at 9:45. The bus came by early and we headed off to split and got there at about 4pm since the bus took a longer route by the coast with some nice scenery. In Split we had a few hours to kill before the ferry opened for loading so we walked around the old palace which had some souvenir shops and little narrow streets and alley ways. We bought our usual souvenirs and then went to wait in line for the ferry. There were already a couple of bus groups waiting so it was another mob scene.

Again we were among the first to get on the boat but it was a different boat so we had to scramble to find a good place to sleep. The bar closed at 12 so we couldn't use their couches. We found a long carpeted corridor with tables and space between the table and the wall where we could make a sleeping nest without people stepping on us. Other people were fighting over the chairs and tables so we couldn't leave our table.

At about 11pm I unscrewed the lightbulbs in the light fixture about us and we spread out on the floor like everybody else. The floor was extremely hard so it was a rough night's sleep. I had to turn over every hour or so because it hurt in any position after a while.

Day 61 / June 5 - Sa / Ancona - Bologna

Got up early on the ferry because people started coming around and making racket. Got to Ancona on time and it was mob scene trying to get out of there. It took forever to get off of the boat but immigration was a breeze because most people where Italian and they got right through with their ID cards.

Went to the train station and found the the cheap train to Bologna left in ten minutes so I rushed back to Hotel Fortuna to get the huge suitcase out of there storage. We then rushed around asking people where our train stopped because we couldn't find it on the big board. Barely made it to the train and headed off to Bolonga.

The trip to Bologna took about 3 hours. Since we didn't have a hotel reservation we went to Mcds right by the station to use their wifi. They had wifi but there was some complicated signup procedure which required an Italian cell phone to receive the signup info. So we had lunch and then I went off to find an internet cafe. Couldn't find one and I just got farther and farther away from the train station so I aborted the search and headed back to Mcds where Kate was waiting. We decided to put the big bags in luggage storage at the train station and then went to find an internet cafe. Finally found one and found a hotel that wasn't too far from the train station. Went back to the station got the big bags and walked about 15 minutes to the Hotel Ideale which was nice but a few blocks into a sketchier part of town.

That evening went for a few slices of Pizza not far from the hotel. The pizza place was next to a big church that was taller than it was long.

Day 62 / June 6 - Su / Bologna

Slept until 10am and got out of the hotel at about noon. Went to Mcds for salads but I ended up eating full burger and fries. Walked to downtown Bologna and Kate found her stores so she was happy. Found the main tourist attractions but we didn't have any cameras so didn't go inside. There were a couple of leaning towers and one had a lookout at the top.

Messed around the rest of the day and took it easy. Had some more pizza from the same place as the day before. Also bought train tickets for Venecia for the following day.

Day 63 / June 7 - Mo / Bologna - Venecia - Bologna

Got up early and took the rain to Venecia and got there at about 10am. Venecia was fantastic and we took 100s of pictures. We walked all over the city and crossed many canals. Went to the top of a tower for incredible views of the red rooftops and water surrounding the city. Had some horrible pasta and pizza for lunch. When we got to the far end of the city we took a water taxi all the way back to the train station. The boat trip was an excellent tour with great views from the water. Got back to Bologna at about 5pm.

Day 64 / June 8 - Tu / Bologna

Spent the day in Bologna relaxing. Kate went back to the stores and I went and climbed the tower (no elevator) and took photos of the red rooftop views of Bologna which were excellent. .

Day 65 / June 9 - We / Bologna - Milan - Bologna

We were planning to go the Pisa to see the leaning tower but we found out that the early train was the only cheap one to Pisa so we decided to go to Milan instead. Got to Milan three hours later and took the subway to downtown. We came out of the subway at the Duomo stop and the largest Gothic cathedral in Europe stood before us. We had lunch and finally got a decent plate of pasta. After lunch Kate went shopping while I went back to the church and looked around and then climbed up to the roof which had walkways and steps to walk all around it for some fantastic views.

Got back to Bologna at about 8pm and bought our train tickets to Nice for the next day, leaving at 7:52am and arriving at about 5pm. It was the hottest day yet in Italy and we were sweating profusely on the train and then back in the hotel room without a/c. I asked the hotel guy if they had any fans for the rooms and he brought us a nice big oscillating fan which made a huge difference that night.

Day 66 / June 10 - Th / Bologna - Nice

Leaving Bologna was sad since it was the perfect base to explore the other cities and attractions of Northern Italy. We enjoyed the easy going atmosphere of this picturesque and cost-effective little city with its arch-covered sidewalks and it's laid back bike, scooter, and bus travelled streets. It's young population was also pleasant and friendly.

We dragged and carried our massive amount of luggage the 8 or so blocks back to the train station and caught our morning train which wasn't very crowded. The trip to Nice required three train changes and went like this: Bologna - Milan - Ventimiglia (Italy) - Monte Carlo (Monaco) - Nice.

In Nice, struggled onto a packed bus to go to the hotel. I had to yell at an old lady who was making comments about the big suitcase. I told her to shut up and called her a whore which she understood.

Finally found the hotel with some help from people on the street. Hotel Danemark, nice place but no wifi, and only one block from the beach and boardwalk.

We were right on the main street and close to the central ped walk way. Walked down to the center and looked at souvenirs and found a restaraunt for dinner.

Day 67 / June 11 - Fr / Nice

Kate found her favorite stores so we spent a lot of time walking around downtown. Went to the bus station to try to find a cheap bus to Paris but there were none. Bought a train ticket online for $250 or so.

Day 68 / June 12 - Sa / Nice - Monaco

Took the train to Monaco and walked around the harbor and then up to the palace which was high up a hill overlooking both sides of Monaco. There were fantastic views from the palace grounds and we took 100s of photos as usual. Had lunch out of a grocery store and headed back to Nice pretty early. We didn't have enough change to buy two train tickets so Kate rode free and they never checked tickets. The train only takes about 15 minutes between Nice and Monaco and the ticket machines don't take bills only change. In Monaco there are public elevators that go up and down the cliffs.

Day 69 / June 13 - Su / Nice

Most places were closed so we just messed around. Spent a lot of time sitting on the promenade in front of the beach and walking among the rollerbladers, joggers, and bicycles.

Day 70 / June 14 - Mo / Nice

Took the train to the next town over, Villafranca del Sur, to go to the beach which we spotted from the train and it looked really calm. The beach was excellent and the water was calm but frigid as usual. There were more topless ladies on this beach.

Day 71 / June 15 - Tu / Nice - Paris

Left the hotel and took all of our gear to the train station. Bus #12 wasn't very crowded so we didn't have to fight with anybody. The train to Paris had plenty of luggage storage and we were the first ones into our car so had no headaches with the big suitcase. The French coast and countryside were spectacular with castles, beaches, and lush greenery everywhere.

Got to Paris and took a the RER subway with some help from a friendly guy at the train station. The people often help us without us even asking them as we are trying to figure out the subway maps and signs. We got to the final stop Rosny Bois Perrier and had to walk all the way around a mall and cross under a major highway to find the hotel. Luckily I spotted the huge sign on the horizen. A half-blind old man from the train was trying to help us and he kept driving by and yelling directions which contradicted what we knew. At one point he was yelling at us and ran right over the corner of the sidewalk.

The hotel room turned out to be nasty and depressing even though the lobby and the pictures on the internet were nice. We went back to the mall for dinner at a Mexican place and then Kate found all of her favorite stores.

Later spent a few hours in the lobby because the wifi doesn't reach the room. We bought our train ticket to London and tried to find a decent hotel for our final week. There were a lot of sketchy people staying in the hotel, Africans, Russians, Middle-easterners as well as backpackers and businesspeople.

Day 72 / June 16 - We / Paris

Slept late and headed to Paris to see the sights. First had lunch at the McDs by the hotel. In Paris, went to the Eiffel Tower and then walked to the Arc de Truimph and Champs Elysee. Got back to the hotel pretty early and bought dinner at the big super market and ate in the hotel dining room and watched tv.

Day 73 / June 17 - Th / Paris

Slept late and headed to another mall to look for Kate's stores. The mall was a few RER train stops away and we it was right by the other station so we found it easily. Before that we had lunch in the mall by the hotel. We bought food in the super market and we ate on a mall bench.

After that went to Paris and found another huge mall at Chatelet Las Hallas which was the stop for Notre Dame and La Leuve. Kept finding more of Kate's stores so she shopped while I walked around the river and the Notre Dame area. Didn't look very impressive so far and there were big crowds everywhere. Headed home and bought dinner at the big super again and ate in the hotel.

After dinner watched Mexico play France in the World Cup and I had a few heinekens from the vending machine.

Day 74 / June 18 - Fr / Paris

Did more shopping since we are finding Kates stores all over the place. We randomly got off of the train and started walking through an Indian neighborhood and what looked like a sex district with some sex shops and fat, old hookers.

Day 75 / June 19 - Sa / Paris

Took a long walk from Gar de Nord to the Grand Palais, the river, and all the way to the Eiffel Tower. Bought an Eiffel Tower souvenir with lights.

Day 76 / June 20 - Su / Paris

Went to a big flea market area to look for used books but didn't find any. Most of the stuff for sale was pirated goods for sale by the Africans.

Afterwards, went to the Notre Dame cathedral and went up to the roof and towers to take pictures of the gargoyles and great shots of Paris. Had to wait for about an hour in line while a guy with a gargoyle mask clowned around with people passing by.

Day 77 / June 21 - Mo / Paris

Found a Greek place in the Latin Quarter for lunch of salad and pita kebob wrap.

After lunch, I went to the Louvre and left Kate at Les Halles for shopping and a movie. The part of the Louvre near the Mona Lisa was full of people but the other sides were almost empty. I went through most of it in about 3 hours and took a lot of pictures.

Day 78 / June 22 - Tu / Paris

After lunch at our favorite greek place, we went to the Eiffel Tower and stood in line for an hour to go up to the 2nd and top levels. There were pirate souvenir vendors all over the place so bought a bunch of little Eiffel Towers. We got four of one size for 6euro (down from euro apiece and 8 keychain size for one euro (down from 5 for 1). One vendor was mad at us and said that we were bad italian people. I kept asking him if he was happy and he said "No, you are bad people and I don't like you.".

There great views from the top of the tower but so many people that it was hard to get a good position. We also had to wait in line to come back down. We were there from about 1pm to 4pm.

Day 79 / June 23 - We / Paris - London

Left for the train station at 11am and barely made it on the train because of all the security and check-in procedures. We thought it would be like a regular international train but it was just like going through the airport.

Got to London, got cash, bought Oyster cards for a week of public transport and then went to Welleston Green and called the hotel people to pick us up. The hotel turned out to be a cozy, little studio apartment in an old brownstone building in a nice little neighborhood. The girl who picked us up was from Uruguay and she set us up in the apartment.

In the afternoon went to the local supermarket to buy dinner of instant spicy Indian food in boxes.

Day 80 / June 24 - Th / London

Day 81 / June 25 - Fr / London

Day 82 / June 26 - Sa / London

Day 83 / June 27 - Su / London

Day 84 / June 28 - Mo / London

Day 85 / June 29 - Tu / London

Day 86 / June 30 - We / London - Miami - Costa Rica
